.TH NOTE_SEARCH 1 "March 2026" "note_search 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
note_search \- search and import todo entries from markdown files into a SQLite database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B note_search
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
[\fICOMMAND\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B note_search
is a command-line tool for searching and importing todo entries from markdown files into a SQLite database.
It parses YAML frontmatter, todo checkboxes, tags, priority markers, and due dates from markdown files,
storing them in a structured database for efficient querying.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B import
Import markdown files into the database. Requires \-\-input unless NOTE_SEARCH_DIR is set.
.TP
.B clear
Clear all data from the database with optional confirmation prompt.
.TP
.B values
List unique values for a specific field (priority, due_date, tag, link, attr:ATTRIBUTE).
.TP
.B backlinks
List documents that link to a given markdown file (filename argument required).
.TP
.B help
Display help information about commands.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General Options
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-database " " \fIPATH\fR
Specify the database file to use (default: ./note.sqlite). Can be overridden by NOTE_SEARCH_DATABASE environment variable.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help text with all available options.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display version information.
.SS Search Options
.TP
.BR \-\-tags " " \fITAG1,TAG2,...\fR
Search for todos with specified tags. All tags must match (logical AND). Tags are matched against both todo entries and document header fields.
.TP
.BR \-\-links " " \fILINK1,LINK2,...\fR
Search for todos with specified links. All links must match (logical AND). Links include both markdown links [text](url) and wiki-style links [[Page]].
.TP
.BR \-\-attributes " " \fIKEY1=VALUE1,KEY2=VALUE2,...\fR
Search for todos with specific attribute values in the YAML header fields.
.TP
.BR \-\-text " " \fISEARCH_TEXT\fR
Search for todos containing the specified text in the todo content.
.TP
.BR \-\-priority " " \fIPRIORITY\fR
Search for todos with the specified priority (A, B, C, etc.).
.TP
.BR \-\-due\-date " " \fIYYYYMMDD\fR
Search for todos due on or before the specified date.
.TP
.BR \-\-due\-date\-eq " " \fIYYYYMMDD\fR
Search for todos due exactly on the specified date.
.TP
.BR \-\-due\-date\-gt " " \fIYYYYMMDD\fR
Search for todos due on or after the specified date.
.TP
.BR \-\-open
Search for open todos only (unchecked items).
.TP
.BR \-\-closed
Search for closed todos only (checked items).
.TP
.BR \-\-sort " " \fIFIELD\fR
Sort results by field: due_date, priority, filename, modified, attr:ATTRIBUTE, or text.
.TP
.BR \-\-format " " \fIFORMAT_STRING\fR
Configure output format using placeholders: {filename}, {line_number}, {text}, {priority}, {due_date}, {tags}, {links}, {attr:NAME}.
.TP
.BR \-\-list
List only file locations without todo text. Each file shown only once.
.SS Import Options
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-input " " \fIDIRECTORY\fR
Input directory containing markdown files. Required unless NOTE_SEARCH_DIR environment variable is set.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIPATH\fR
Output database path (defaults to the database specified with \-d).
.TP
.BR \-\-watch
Watch mode: continuously monitor directory for changes and automatically import new or modified files.
.TP
.BR \-\-interval " " \fISECONDS\fR
Watch interval in seconds (default: 60).
.SS Clear Options
.TP
.BR \-\-yes
Confirm clearing without interactive prompt.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NOTE_SEARCH_DATABASE
Default database path. Can be overridden with \-d flag.
.TP
.B NOTE_SEARCH_DIR
Default input directory for import command. Can be overridden with \-\-input flag.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Search for open todos with a specific tag:
.RS
.nf
$ note_search \-\-open \-\-tags feature
.fi
.RE
.PP
Search for todos due tomorrow:
.RS
.nf
$ note_search \-\-due\-date\-eq 20260316
.fi
.RE
.PP
Search for overdue high priority tasks:
.RS
.nf
$ note_search \-\-due\-date 20260314 \-\-priority A \-\-open
.fi
.RE
.PP
Import markdown files:
.RS
.nf
$ note_search import \-\-input ./my_notes
.fi
.RE
.PP
Import with watch mode:
.RS
.nf
$ note_search import \-\-input ./my_notes \-\-watch \-\-interval 30
.fi
.RE
.PP
Sort results by due date:
.RS
.nf
$ note_search \-\-open \-\-sort due_date
.fi
.RE
.PP
List unique priorities:
.RS
.nf
$ note_search values priority
.fi
.RE
.PP
List documents that link to a specific file:
.RS
.nf
$ note_search backlinks myfile.md
.fi
.RE
.PP
Clear database without confirmation:
.RS
.nf
$ note_search clear \-\-yes
.fi
.RE
.PP
Use environment variables:
.RS
.nf
$ export NOTE_SEARCH_DATABASE="$HOME/.notes/note.sqlite"
$ export NOTE_SEARCH_DIR="$HOME/notes"
$ note_search \-\-open
$ note_search import
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ./note.sqlite
Default SQLite database file containing markdown_data and todo_entries tables.
.SH SUPPORTED MARKDOWN FORMAT
.PP
The tool recognizes YAML frontmatter between --- markers, todo checkboxes, and various markers:
.PP
.RS
.nf
---
title: Project Notes
author: John Doe
---

# My Project

- [ ] Implement feature priority: A due: 20260101 #feature
- [x] Fix bug #bug
- [ ] Review documentation #docs
.fi
.RE
.PP
Supported syntax:
.IP \(bu 2
YAML frontmatter (title, author, and custom attributes)
.IP \(bu 2
Todo entries as checkbox items: - [ ] (open) or - [x] (closed)
.IP \(bu 2
Priority markers: priority: A (or priority: B, priority: C, etc.)
.IP \(bu 2
Due date markers: due: 20260101 (YYYYMMDD format)
.IP \(bu 2
Tags: Extracted from #tag format or tag: TAG format
.IP \(bu 2
Links: Markdown links [text](url) and wiki-style links [[Page]]
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful execution
.TP
.B 1
Error (database not found, invalid arguments, etc.)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sqlite3 (1),
.BR cargo (1),
.BR rustc (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written for markdown todo management.
.SH BUGS
Report issues at https://github.com/user/note_search/issues
